## Chores
- [e] X

## Study

## Study

## Quotes

## Battles
- Pick your battles!

### Trip cancellation day
Grumpy as fuck, again medicine to get me better with no real interest (perceived) to actually make me feel better. Chores when I cannot do much, but it would be beautiful to be so thoughtful to participate!
And of course it would be absolutely catastrophic in case I didn't. For instance:
That Sunday we had that fight about the dog's walkies. I was asked what I did for my dog as a parent that day, since the other party did nothing. And that if noone walked the dog, the dog took all the harm. But when I asked for her to pick up the medicine for the dog since I cannot order it and she is outside the house anyway, I was trying to put it on her. Again double standards. This is now going on for long enough.

Options include not doing shit so she can appreciate when I actually do things, or be perfect. But being perfect grows resentment, and then we are getting in the circle of being perfect and her not being perfect etc.
I guess not doing shit is a solution, until she breaks down and does not do anything herself either. Then I will need to
pick up the slack again and build resentment again.

This is all stemming from the fact that I don't offer enough? I mean the only thing I know I am not doing is not going
in excursions or w/e she *needs* but this is not something I can do easily. I cannot want to go somewhere with her when
I risk the possibility of wasting a perfectly good morning/afternoon etc. with the mood swings. She is not stable
emotionally to be treated stably. This is something I could work on, giving more opportunities to us outside the house
since this is what she has verbally expressed as something she misses. 
